# YOUR PROJECT TITLE
#### Video Demo: (https://youtu.be/ZL31WHf-RGA)
#### Description:
My final project is a website called Trackify, where users can keep track of their assignments so they can stay up-to-date on their school work. Users must first create an account before they can use the website. Once they have created the website, they will be able to see a table of all of the assignments they currently have. To add an assignment, the user must first create the subject and class for that assignment. Then, they will have to fill out a form to add the actual assignment. Once they fill out the form, the assignment will appear as a row in the table, which displays the assignment’s name, the type of the assignment (online or paper), the class the assignment is for, the subject the assignment is apart of, a dropdown where users can update the status of the assignment, the due date and due time, and a countdown of the time left until the assignment is due. User’s have the option to select the status of the assignment as ‘Not Started,’ ‘In Progress,’ ‘Completed,’ and ‘Submitted.’ the color of the row for that assignment will change depending on the status. The row will be red if an assignment is marked as ‘Not Started,’ yellow for ‘In Progress,’ and green for ‘Completed’ and ‘Submitted.’ The assignment will only disappear once it is marked as ‘Submitted.’ Unlike the assignments, classes and subjects can be removed by the user at any time. Users can also leave a review for the website and see all of the reviews with its average 5-star rating.
This project was created using the flask framework. It consists of 13 files: 11 html files, one python file, and a file containing the database for the website. The database contains information about the users’ username and password and the users’ subjects, classes, and assignments they have saved in the website. The python file serves as the backend for the website and it contains a function for each page of the website. Each function has error handling in case the user left some fields blank or entered invalid information as well as the logic that successfully implements the task on the page the user is specifically on. For example, once the user has filled out the form to complete an assignment, a function is called that checks if all of the fields were filled out and then adds the assignment to the database. There are also functions that edit, remove, or simply display the information requested by the user.
All except one html page corresponds to an actual web page on the website. There is one html file called “layout.html” that has the code for the heading and footer of the website, a javascript function that displays the countdown, and a line of jinja code that serves as placeholders for the body of the website. All of the other html files consist of the body of the website for their corresponding page. There is an html file for each page on the website. Each of these files has code for display error or confirmation messages for the user depending on their input. These files, except for the ones labeled “index.html” and “reviews_all.html” consist of form(s) that users can fill out. For example, the subject.html file consists of three forms where users can add, edit, or remove a subject while the add_assignment.html file has a single form where users can add an assignment. The index.html file consists of a table of all of the assignments the user has inputted. This file uses javascript to adjust the color of the row depending on the status of the assignment, save the most recent status of the assignment, and calls a function that displays the countdown of the assignment. The reviews_all.html file just displays all of the reviews made from the website. Each review has its 5-star rating, a title, the name of the user who created the review, the date of the review, and the body of the review.
There were some design choices that I debated doing. First, I wondered if I should create my own CSS or just use a framework like Bootstrap. I decided to use Bootstrap because I didn’t have to worry about creating my own CSS, which would have been a lot of work. I also debated about having a separate page for the add subject, edit subject, and remove subject fields but I decided to just combine all of them together because it is more user-friendly and the fields were too short to put on a separate page. The design choices I made were implemented to make the website more aesthetically pleasing and for the user to have a more user-friendly experience.
